Let's now create a template that will be responsible for displaying pages. So right now
pages are falling back to index.php.
So let's now go and create a file called page.php. So page.php will be responsible for displaying single pages.
It's kind a like single.php for posts. So in single.php we get some options from the
custom fields remember. And that would be responsible for the layout of the page. But in pages
this will be a little bit different.
So let's copy this to be kind of similar.
But let's now remove these options.
And let's also remove this. And we don't have to use the option here.
So let's make it 8.
And also for the sidebar.
Let's always display it.
So of course here you can check is_active_sidebar() and change the layout depending on whether the sidebar is active
or not.
But let's just keep it simple for now.
We'll assume that the sidebar is always active.
So what we need to change here is the get_template_part(), "loop" and "single". This will go to loop-single which is here and it will
display a lot of information that only concerns the post.
We don't need all that. So let's create a separate template part for the page. So let's say "loop" "page".
And let's create
loop-page here.
And let's actually also copy this and we'll see what we need.
And we and what we don't need here.
So we don't need the "author_info". We don't need the "post_navigation".
We do need the "comments", pages can also have comments.
We also need the content but we need to create another template part for the
page content. So right now
it's post and content so it will go template-parts/post and content. And here we have a lot of information.
We don't need all of that information in the page.
So let's create a new folder in the template-parts and call it page. And inside of it let's create a new file,
content. And that will be the content for a page.
So here in the loop-page we'll change this to "page" and let's start filling this content.php.
So we will also need an ARTICLE tag. Let's copy it from here instead of typing.
We will however have to change the "c-post" class here and make it "page".
So what we want to display in a page is just the title and the content.
So let's open a HEADER tag with a class of "c-page__header" and this will contain
the title of the page.
So in an H1 tag with a class of, sorry, "c-page__title". And we'll just
display the title.
We don't need any arguments here. And then we'll have another DIV with a class "c-page__
"c-page__content". And inside of this one we will just display the content.
We also don't need any arguments here.
So let's save now and see our page.
And as you can see we have the page title and the content.
And we also have the sidebar.
So let's say we need to do something like what we did for the single.php. In the single.php
we had some custom fields that will decide the layout of the single blog post, right?
So here in the backend when we create a post or edit a post we'll have these fields. In pages
we can also add custom fields the same way like we did for the posts.
However there is a default functionality in WordPress called page templates.
So using page templates we can have multiple templates for pages without having to create custom fields
and then getting the field value here.
It will be much easier than that.
So to see how to do that in the next section.